to end this lecture we're actually going
to summarize all of the data structures
we've implemented up to this point so
all of them basically do the same thing
which is solve something I call the
search problem basically given a stream
of data I want to get the information I
want from that stream so for example a
website user posts something to a
personal page and we want to serve that
content whatever it may be only to their
friends this is a very old social
network from back in the day and you
want to make sure that only the people
you want to be able to see things can
say that see the things you want them
sleep another one given logs for
thousands of weather stations out there
display a nice weather map for the
specified date and time right I want to
show this nice heat map showing the
current temperature at some place so all
these things are the search problem and
the data structures we've been building
so far have been to solve the search
problem for various domains of interest
so for example we had the list the map
the set the priority queue and the
disjoint sets operation and all of these
in some sense can be interpreted as part
of the search problem so in this case
the list operation are say the list data
structure abstract data type it has the
add and insert storage operations these
are the key things the way you put stuff
in maps you put a key value pair sets
you add priority queues you add in
destroyed sets you connect things up how
do you retrieve information back from
them with lists you get something from
an index for maps you get a key what
sets you ask if it's contained
if priority queue asks for the smallest
thing and with disjoint sets you say are
two things connected and the information
you use to actually retrieve things and
is different in each so we have the
index the identity of a key the order of
the key is what we do with priority
queues with disjoint sets or doing two
int values so all of these different
data structures all these different
abstract data types they solve some
problem if you need to do this right I
need to get back items by their key
identity the map is your tool of
interest so let's think about how we can
actually implement each of these we've
seen a bunch of these I have my answers
here but I'm going to make up a new
slide here so what are all the ways that
we were able to implement
and maps I'll start listing some so one
Bay is to do a binary search tree
hotspot VST and a binary search tree
will work but I'm gonna say that as
performance is not particularly good
right I'm gonna do it market and red if
we have a balanced binary search tree
maybe we have a do two three tree okay
so I'm just doing this totally off the
dome it probably won't match the slide
below two three trees by contrast they
actually have great performance I'll
mark it in green we could also do LLR
B's we could do let's say hash tables
and yeah those are all some different
ways we could do it so these all here
I'll lump together right because they're
all part of the same family the same
core idea so I'll do this little rounded
square here we go send it to the back
make it light that's a little dark let's
maybe make it a little nicer so each of
these that's too light I don't know
maybe we're gonna poor we were okay and
so in this case each of these could be
used to represent a set now turns out
actually I would draw a little line here
to represent this fact that a set and a
map are deeply intertwined data
structures in fact both of them use key
identity and the only real meaningful
difference between the two is that a map
instead of giving you a true false value
it gives you something else right so if
you give it horse maybe it gives you a
picture of a horse whereas a set would
just say yes horses included okay so
I'll add all these lines to say these
are different ways of doing things
okay so sets Maps these are different
ways of doing it they're more than this
right I mean there's skip lists and
splay trees and AVL trees and all kinds
of other things you could try and
imagine and hash tables by the way there
are different ways of doing it in fact
exile all numerate them separately so we
have separate chaining hash table and
then there's also the one we didn't
mention in lecture except an extra
slides that which would be linear
probing oh my gosh I can't believe I did
that
I used to always get tripped up on this
word by the way I don't know that's a
little Barisan but whatever you don't
always have to spell correctly not in
the modern Europe
Peter's with lower red lines it took me
forever by the way to get this one right
definitely
my god I always did that for ages like I
eventually purge myself of writing
definitely I don't know this anyway all
right how about stacks right so the
stack is an abstract data structure or
abstract data type that we've used in
the past and there's a bunch of
different ways we could implement that
we could do for example a linked list we
could do I don't have you here and I'm
not gonna go looking for you again this
time to ask you what you might do well
we have linked lists and we have let's
say ArrayList I will call it resizing
array these are two different ideas here
okay and in some ways these are like a
linked list and these are like a
resizing array
okay so there's some parallels here I'll
draw a little box here okay fix the
color yeah send it to the back all right
so I have a linked list resizing array
these were a part of stack I don't think
they really they don't deserve a box
around them right so you might try to do
the same exercise for the rest without
me telling you okay well a list turns
out to be pretty similar to a stack this
okay today we just did the priority
queue so the priority queue we think
what are the different ways of doing
this okay well in this lecture we talked
about how we could do in order to write
and we said that wasn't very good we
talked about using a BST which I mean
it's kind of good it's arguable actually
the same balanced I'll do LLR V it's
left-leaning red-black tree so this kind
of works and it has good performance I'm
gonna call it yellow
during this one so tricky because it
takes some modification but it actually
ultimately has good performance a hash
table of some kind not very good we'll
just be slow and what we did in this
lecture is he introduced another
implementation of this abstract data
type
which was the heat so I won't do all the
disjoint set ones because probably
you're getting a little fatigued from
watching me draw diagrams so I'll just
switch to the one I did last time well
compare and see how I did okay so in
this case I used blue and red okay and
this is basically a while so you note
down here this is from a previous
semesters lectures where this is what
the students came up with I asked in
class we threw them all in there and
this is the creation I had there okay so
a pretty similar idea although in that
case I called this blue and study yellow
and so the different taxonomy so you
might have but I just wanted to draw
this picture right I mean the exact
picture I don't need to memorize this
picture I don't want you to copy it down
and your cheat sheet well I guess you
can but it really should be something
you construct right so there's different
ways you might texana mize these these
are two different taxonomy x' this is
from students in the past this is the
one I just did and I think it's
important and interesting to keep this
thing in line okay so that brings us
then to an interesting notion I want to
bring up which is the distinction but
stream in abstract data type and an
implementation so sometimes abstraction
actually happens in layers so a priority
queue as you noticed I said one of the
ways we could do this is a heap right
but what is a heap well heap is a heap
order tree and what's a tree was
actually five different ways of doing
that we had approach 1a 1b 1c 2 3
actually you know I left off an
important one which is the one actually
we did in lecture so we'll put that in
so this approach 3b and so all those
will work this one has a same concise
line good so all those are work and they
have the different trade-offs but they
should all be pretty fast how about an
external chaining or separate chaining
hash table well it's an array of buckets
but what's the bucket well it could be
an ArrayList it could be a resizing
array it could be a linked list it could
actually be a binary search tree
you could build a hash table where each
bucket as a binary search tree though
all of these are also fast because one
of the rules with buckets is we always
resize so everything is a constant size
that is each of these should all be
below some some Khan
right so it doesn't matter how whether
it's a list or a tree it's still gonna
be a constant size that they'll all be
fast okay so that's actually a really
important point and in theory you could
build something like this say for
project two you could imagine you're
building a database you could have a
database which is a table which has
addenda and it could just be this
gigantic hierarchy of ideas and this is
I think an important notion and again
one of the main goals of computer
science right trying to learn it is
learning how to manage complexity and I
think this is these diagrams give you a
sense of how we can taxonomy and our
tools for managing complexity and what's
important to note that often the things
happen in layers now there are also some
specialized searching data structures so
occasionally we won't just have a list
full so I've say a stack or a queue or a
double-ended queue and each of these are
basically you know a stack is just a
list where you can only take things off
the top and a queue is something where
you enter at the top and you enter at
the bottom or whatever else and a
double-ended queue you could do either
in but you can't do the middle and so
those are all specialized versions of
lists and it's just nice to note that
sometimes that's the case same deal will
set some Maps
you could have sorted sets or sort of
maps in Java there are actually
interfaces or maybe they're abstract
classes I don't actually remember called
sorted set and sorted map and I'll
mention that with priority queue you
could have a minimum oriented and a
maximum oriented priority queue but
typically we don't actually consider
those distinctions since we can always
just provide the opposite comparator so
if we want to find the most harmonious
thing someone wrote we could just give a
comparator which does the opposite of
the unharmonious comparator okay so this
summarizes this isn't the very last data
structure we're gonna do but I do want
to at this point now that we've covered
all of the really core data structures
it's good to reflect here and say that a
data structure this course simply put is
just a particular way of organizing data
and in so far what we've done is we've
considered a lot of the most fundamental
abstract data types
right we've talked about maps and sess
and priority queues we've talked about
well I guess this joint sets which is
not quite as fundamental and stacks
which are really just a kind of list but
these for rate
year especially these three set map and
list those are the the head honchos are
the the most important of our abstract
data types out there and we've also seen
the common implementations right we've
seen all of these and we've seen their
trade offs we've drawn these diagrams
we've decided these are red this is
yellow this is green and a lot of what
you'll see moving forwards as someone
trying to manage complexity and write
programs that are fast is knowing first
of all what the abstract data types are
that will make your life easy and second
of all which implementations are
actually going to make your
implementation faster now in practice
often any of the good implementations is
good enough though occasionally maybe
you'll find you want a tree map versus a
hash map but to be quite honest that
doesn't happen super often that's not
usually a big piece of your choice but
often when you go to data structures or
you're really trying to push performance
okay when you go to data structures I
meant to say when you go to interviews
or whenever you're really trying to
squeeze the last mile of performance out
that's where the implementation
differences come up and so we'll do two
more data structures in this class
there'll be the quadtree and then
there'll be the graph and that will be
all we got for this class now if you
wouldn't even go to Wikipedia by the way
and you could see that we've done a lot
of these things so we haven't done all
of the abstract data types I mean you'll
notice that there's something here known
as a multi map there also seems to be a
that's pretty much the only one that's
lists we haven't done right so we got
multi map and multi set but we've done
all the rest an associative array mm I'm
not sure how that's different than a map
but I guess we'll look on Wikipedia in a
bit but these are our abstract data
types these are different ways of
structuring arrays or array based data
structures we have our trees and so
forth and so we've covered a lot of
what's in this diagram and we'll do a
little bit more in the future okay
that's it for this lecture and I'll see
you next